From: "Dr. Alan Sherman" <sherman@cs.umbc.edu>
Date: Fri, 6 Mar 1998 03:11:48 -0800 (PST)
To: Crypto Announce -- Crypto UMBC <theory-local@cs.umd.edu>
Subject: Barry Smith (FBI) speaks today 3:30pm at UMBC
Message-ID: <Pine.SOL.3.95.980306060957.17174B-100000@topdog.cs.umbc.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


   The UMBC Security Technology Research Group presents

     A Law-Enforcement Perspective on Encryption Policy

			Barry Smith
	       Supervisory Special Agent, FBI

	    moderated by journalist Peter Wayner

		      3:30pm - 5:00pm
		   Friday, March 6, 1998
		      Lecture Hall III
	       University of Maryland, Baltimore County
    http://www.cs.umbc.edu/events/spring98/crypto.shtml

The second lecture and discussion in a two-part forum on
encryption policy.  Journalist Peter Wayner will introduce
and moderate the event, which is free and open to the
public.  In Part I, freedom activist John Gilmore and Fritz
Fielding (Ex-Associate General Councel, NSA) gave their
divergent views, focusing on the Burnstein case.

Barry Smith will articulate the needs of law enforcement to
conduct lawful wiretaps; he will advocate the use of
key-recovery techniques to achieve this end as a way that
provides adequate privacy to law-abiding citizens.

Schedule: The event will begin with a brief (10 minute)
introduction by Peter Wayner.  Following Barry Smith's talk,
which will last approximately 45 minutes, there will be an
opportunity to ask questions for approximately 20-30
minutes.

Questions: Attendees are encouraged to ask questions in
advance by sending email to sherman@cs.umbc.edu

Directions: Take Exit #47B off interstate I-95 and follow
signs to UMBC.  LH III is in the Administration Building,
adjacent visitor's parking lot near the I-95 entrance to
UMBC.  

Host: Dr. Alan T. Sherman
      Associate Professor, Computer Science
      sherman@cs.umbc.edu
      http://www.umbc.edu
      (410) 455-2666

     This event is held in cooperation with the UMBC
	       Intellectual Sports Council
		       Honors College
	       Phi Beta Kappa honors society
                   CMSC Council of Majors
		   IFSM Council of Majors
		ACM Student Chapter at UMCP






