From: Sandy <72114.1712@CompuServe.COM>
Date: Sun, 12 Sep 93 20:04:28 PDT
To: <cypherpunks@toad.com>
Subject: A CYPHERPUNK VISION
Message-ID: <930913025413_72114.1712_FHF93-1@CompuServe.COM>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  SANDY SANDFORT               Reply to:  ssandfort@attmail.com
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Cypherpunks,

At the Bay Area physical meeting on Saturday, I gave a slightly
longer version of the following presentation.  Please make sure
you read the "call to arms" at the end.  Uncle Sandy wants you.

 S a n d y

>>>>>>    Please send e-mail to:  ssandfort@attmail.com    <<<<<<


                            *   *   *

                       A CYPHERPUNK VISION


We are fond of saying, "Cypherpunks write code," but what does
that really mean?  "Writing code" isn't just programming.  To me,
it is a metaphor for direct, personal action.  That's what Phil
Zimmermann did when he wrote the code for PGP.  But, it is also
what John Gilmore did when he sued the NSA.

Cypherpunks don't wait for other people to grant them freedom or
privacy; they do it themselves.  They use their wits and talents
to create innovative defenses and bold counter-attacks.  Cypher-
punks are the ultimate practitioners of "self-help."

So what should YOU do, to be a "real" Cypherpunk?  The answer is:
Whatever interests you.

Are you good with electronics?  How about breadboarding a voice
compressor/encrypter.

Can you write code?  Maybe you can make a Windows shell for PGP.

Mathematically inclined?  Tweak the algorithms.  Find the weak-
nesses; find the improvements.

Do you have a flare for writing?  Write articles or stories that
popularize the Cypherpunk world-view.

Is business or law your cup of tea?  Start a privacy consultation
business and make a buck while fighting the good fight.

Whatever you WANT to do, is what you SHOULD do.  There is more
work to be done than Cypherpunks to do it.  Any area of the
struggle that is important to you, is also important to others.
The battle for freedom and privacy is a target-rich environment.
As Marine general "Chesty" Puller said when he was told that the
North Koreans had surrounded his position, "Great, we've got them
right where we want them.  We can fire in any direction!"

So where have I decided to fire?

As many of you know, I have a background in the law and offshore
business.  Naturally, I want apply that training and experience
to fighting the technological threats to freedom and privacy that
gave rise to the Cypherpunks.  To that end, I give you my vision:
A Bank in Cyberspace.


A BANK IN CYBERSPACE

Protecting one's privacy is nothing new.  For hundreds of years,
people have protected their wealth and financial privacy by
transnationalizing themselves.  In today's world, this means
"offshore" banks and other international techniques.  In simple
terms, by diversifying internationally, you can "forum shop" for
the best deals offered by each country's laws.  Since all nations
are in competition for foreign capital, one can be played off
against another.

Low taxes and banking secrecy are two services even the poorest
of countries can offer.  As a result, tax, banking and privacy
havens are quite numerous and affordable.  Take your pick.

The trouble is, tax haven banks are often located in the world's
backwaters.  Using them just isn't convenient for most people.
The obvious answer is technology, but bankers, being conserva-
tive, have failed to plumb its enormous potential.  It's time for
a change--a Cypherpunk change.

To that end, I am introducing The Internet Digital Security Bank
and Escrow, the first bank founded in cyberspace.  The Bank would
offer interest bearing checking accounts to the 10-15 million
Internet users, plus anyone else with access to e-mail.  Unlike
traditional banks, there would be no paper checks.  All checks
would be written as encrypted and digitally signed e-mail
messages.  In the future, digital cash would also be made
available to Bank customers.

The escrow services of the Bank would be used to protect both
parties to electronic business exchanges.  The escrow services
would facilitate a wide variety of anonymous transactions.

A team of entrepreneurs, computer programers, lawyers and
financiers is currently being assembled.  If you would like to
participate in this project, please contact: Sandy Sandfort,
ssandfort@attmail.com.  Please include your resume or other info
about your education, skills and interests.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~





